hugo/content/docs/stream-connectors/xml.md, before:

---
title: "Xml"
description: "Details about the XmlSource and XmlDestination"
lead: "The XmlSource and XmlDestination allow you to read or write data from/into a xml file or web service."
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "stream-connectors"
weight: 450
toc: true
---

#### Xml connector package

If you need to work with xml code, make sure to add the latest {{< link-ext text="ETLBox.Xml" url="https://www.nuget.org/packages/ETLBox.Xml/" >}} package to your project. The xml integration is based on `System.Xml`.

## XmlSource

The xml source let you read data from a xml source.

Let's assume your xml file looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Root>
    <MySimpleRow Col1="1">
        <Col2>Test1</Col2>
    </MySimpleRow>
    <MySimpleRow Col1="2">
        <Col2>Test2</Col2>
    </MySimpleRow>
</Root>
```

Xml reading is based on the Microsoft XmlSerializer (using System.Xml.Serialization). You can make use of the default xml attribute 
annotations to influence how data is read by the XmlSerializer. For the example xml above, the following code could read the xml file:

```C#
[XmlRoot("MySimpleRow")]
public class MyRow
{
    [XmlAttribute]
    public int Col1 { get; set; }
    public string Col2 { get; set; }
}

XmlSource<MyRow> source = new XmlSource<MyRow>("source.xml", ResourceType.File);
```

### Using dynamic objects

XmlSource does also support the dynamic ExpandoObject. If you want to use it, you can define an ElementName that contains the data you actually
want to parse - as you normally are not interested in your root element. ETLBox then will look for this Element and parse every occurrence of
it into an ExpandoObject and send it into the connected components. 

Here is an example. If your xml looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Root>
    <MySimpleRow>
        <Column1>1</Column1>
        <Column2>Test1</Column2>
    </MySimpleRow>
    <MySimpleRow>
        <Column1>2</Column1>
        <Column2>Test2</Column2>
    </MySimpleRow>
<Root>
```

You can parse the two elements <MySimpleRow> with the following code:

```C#
XmlSource source = new XmlSource("demo2.xml", ResourceType.File)
{
    ElementName = "MySimpleRow"
};
```

## XmlDestination

The xml destination will use the same XmlSerializer to serialize the data and write them into an xml file.

Here is an example how to influence the XmlSerializer using attributes:

```C#
[XmlRoot("MySimpleRow")]
public class MyRow
{
    [XmlAttribute]
    public int Col1 { get; set; }
    [XmlAttribute]
    public string Col2 { get; set; }
}

XmlDestination<MyRow> dest = 
  new XmlDestination<MyRow>("dest.xml", ResourceType.File);
```

Could create an output that looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Root>
  <MySimpleRow Col1="1" Col2="Test1" />
  <MySimpleRow Col1="2" />
</Root>
```

Commit message:

Referring to shared functionalities in streaming connectors

hugo/content/docs/stream-connectors/xml.md, after:

---
title: "Xml"
description: "Details about the XmlSource and XmlDestination"
lead: "The XmlSource and XmlDestination allow you to read or write data from/into a xml file or web service."
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "stream-connectors"
weight: 450
toc: true
---

#### Xml connector package

If you need to work with xml code, make sure to add the latest {{< link-ext text="ETLBox.Xml" url="https://www.nuget.org/packages/ETLBox.Xml/" >}} package to your project. The xml integration is based on `System.Xml`.

{{< alert text="All streaming connectors share a set of common properties. For example, instead of reading or writing from/into a file you can set ResourceType to ResourceType.Http or ResourceType.AzureBlob in order to read or write into a webpoint or an Azure blob. See <a href=\"../streaming\">Shared Functionalites</a> for a list of all shared properties between all streaming connectors."  >}}

## XmlSource

The xml source let you read data from a xml source.

Let's assume your xml file looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Root>
    <MySimpleRow Col1="1">
        <Col2>Test1</Col2>
    </MySimpleRow>
    <MySimpleRow Col1="2">
        <Col2>Test2</Col2>
    </MySimpleRow>
</Root>
```

Xml reading is based on the Microsoft XmlSerializer (using System.Xml.Serialization). You can make use of the default xml attribute 
annotations to influence how data is read by the XmlSerializer. For the example xml above, the following code could read the xml file:

```C#
[XmlRoot("MySimpleRow")]
public class MyRow
{
    [XmlAttribute]
    public int Col1 { get; set; }
    public string Col2 { get; set; }
}

XmlSource<MyRow> source = new XmlSource<MyRow>("source.xml", ResourceType.File);
```

### Using dynamic objects

XmlSource does also support the dynamic ExpandoObject. If you want to use it, you can define an ElementName that contains the data you actually
want to parse - as you normally are not interested in your root element. ETLBox then will look for this Element and parse every occurrence of
it into an ExpandoObject and send it into the connected components. 

Here is an example. If your xml looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Root>
    <MySimpleRow>
        <Column1>1</Column1>
        <Column2>Test1</Column2>
    </MySimpleRow>
    <MySimpleRow>
        <Column1>2</Column1>
        <Column2>Test2</Column2>
    </MySimpleRow>
<Root>
```

You can parse the two elements <MySimpleRow> with the following code:

```C#
XmlSource source = new XmlSource("demo2.xml", ResourceType.File)
{
    ElementName = "MySimpleRow"
};
```

## XmlDestination

The xml destination will use the same XmlSerializer to serialize the data and write them into an xml file.

Here is an example how to influence the XmlSerializer using attributes:

```C#
[XmlRoot("MySimpleRow")]
public class MyRow
{
    [XmlAttribute]
    public int Col1 { get; set; }
    [XmlAttribute]
    public string Col2 { get; set; }
}

XmlDestination<MyRow> dest = 
  new XmlDestination<MyRow>("dest.xml", ResourceType.File);
```

Could create an output that looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Root>
  <MySimpleRow Col1="1" Col2="Test1" />
  <MySimpleRow Col1="2" />
</Root>
```
